The upright Sun is all about reason, light, order. It is a card of youthfulness, children and music, of clear thought and the feeling that all is right in the universe. Reversed....

1) Opposite: The opposite would most logically be "night" or the "The Moon" but we have those cards already. With the Sun, reason and order should prevail, as with the Moon, emotion and superstition prevail...so what of the Sun reversed? Say that poor logic and bad reasoning prevail. Facts are presented, but taken out of context. Wrong conclusions are reached, arguments are twisted. This is not chaos so much as "disorder." Things are in place, just not in the right place.

2) Blocked: The Sun's energy is all about clarity, reason and light. Blocked gives us an eclipse. Things seem dark, muddled, unclear; illogical - but there is hope that once the eclipse is over, the light will shine again. Give the Sun's connection to children, this could also indicate problems with pregnancy or getting along with young children. This would also be a bad card for musicians or mathematicians, ruled by the Sun. What should, for them, make sense and be harmonious becomes not as bad logic and disharmonious sounds reign.

3) Upside-down: Reverse the Rider-Waite Sun card and the sun sinks down instead of rising up. The innocence and clarity of childhood loses his banner and his seat on the horse, the sunflowers wilt. The Sun provides life to flowers and to people; if it is reversed and going down, then its light and warmth is fading, and so is the life it supports. This is not, as with the blocked card, a suggestion that the light is temporarily gone, but a fading Sun - it suggests that the querent is either unable to recapture youth and childhood or that they are refusing to see the light. It is possible that the querent is rejecting reason and logic. Ignorant and short-sighted forces of cynical adulthood are winning. No one is listening to youthful protests, or thinking of the children, of future generations. 
